Documentation/Administration/RenderingPdf/Index.rst, before:

.. ==================================================
.. FOR YOUR INFORMATION
.. --------------------------------------------------
.. -*- coding: utf-8 -*- with BOM.

.. include:: ../../Includes.txt


.. _rendering_pdf:

Rendering PDF
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Sphinx is using *builders* to produce output. The builder’s "name" must be given to the ``-b`` command-line option of ``sphinx-build`` to select a builder. For instance, when compiling as HTML, this extension invokes:

.. code-block:: bash

	$ sphinx-build -b html -c /path/to/conf.py ...

Sphinx is able to render PDF using either LaTeX as intermediate format or ``rst2pdf`` which is available off http://rst2pdf.ralsina.com.ar/.

This chapter describes how to install LaTeX as the PDF output is much prettier and professional. One drawback of LaTeX is that it can only be installed globally on your system; this is the reason why this extension does not provide a wizard in Extension Manager to install and configure it automatically for you.

If you happen to successfully install and configure ``rst2pdf`` locally for your own account, please drop me a note so that I can extend this manual and potentially automate the process for other users.

The builder name for LaTeX rendering is ``latex``:

.. code-block:: bash

	$ sphinx-build -b latex -c /path/to/conf.py ...

This builder produces a bunch of LaTeX files in the output directory. You have to specify which documents are to be included in which LaTeX files via the `latex_documents <http://sphinx-doc.org/config.html#confval-latex_documents>`_ configuration value. There are a few configuration values that customize the output of this builder, see the chapter `Options for LaTeX output <http://sphinx-doc.org/config.html#latex-options>`_ for details.

Once the LaTeX files have been produced, the actual rendering as PDF is just a matter of compiling the LaTeX sources with ``pdflatex``.

.. toctree::
	:maxdepth: 5
	:titlesonly:
	:glob:

	IntroductionLaTeX
	InstallingLaTeXLinux
	InstallingLaTeXWindows

Commit message:

[FEATURE] Add support for rst2pdf
rst2pdf (http://rst2pdf.ralsina.com.ar/) is the alternate way of rendering PDF
out of ReStructuredText files when LaTeX is not available.

Change-Id: Ie0a4974ded08896faa8ca5c0a0e1fe1637fed35c
Resolves: #49341
Reviewed-on: https://review.typo3.org/21619
Reviewed-by: Xavier Perseguers
Tested-by: Xavier Perseguers

Documentation/Administration/RenderingPdf/Index.rst, after:

.. ==================================================
.. FOR YOUR INFORMATION
.. --------------------------------------------------
.. -*- coding: utf-8 -*- with BOM.

.. include:: ../../Includes.txt


.. _rendering_pdf:

Rendering PDF with LaTeX
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Sphinx is using *builders* to produce output. The builder’s "name" must be given to the ``-b`` command-line option of ``sphinx-build`` to select a builder. For instance, when compiling as HTML, this extension invokes:

.. code-block:: bash

	$ sphinx-build -b html -c /path/to/conf.py ...

Sphinx is able to render PDF using either LaTeX as intermediate format or ``rst2pdf`` which is available off http://rst2pdf.ralsina.com.ar/ and is automatically installed and configured. PDF output with ``rst2pdf`` is by far not as good as when using LaTeX but it has the real advantage of not requiring you to install a full LaTeX stack on your machine.

This chapter describes how to install LaTeX as the PDF output is much prettier and professional. One drawback of LaTeX is that it can only be installed globally on your system; this is the reason why this extension does not provide a wizard in Extension Manager to install and configure it automatically for you.

The builder name for LaTeX rendering is ``latex``:

.. code-block:: bash

	$ sphinx-build -b latex -c /path/to/conf.py ...

This builder produces a bunch of LaTeX files in the output directory. You have to specify which documents are to be included in which LaTeX files via the `latex_documents <http://sphinx-doc.org/config.html#confval-latex_documents>`_ configuration value. There are a few configuration values that customize the output of this builder, see the chapter `Options for LaTeX output <http://sphinx-doc.org/config.html#latex-options>`_ for details.

Once the LaTeX files have been produced, the actual rendering as PDF is just a matter of compiling the LaTeX sources with ``pdflatex``.

.. toctree::
	:maxdepth: 5
	:titlesonly:
	:glob:

	IntroductionLaTeX
	InstallingLaTeXLinux
	InstallingLaTeXWindows
