Documentation/UserManual/CreatingBuildingSphinxDocumentationProject/Index.rst, before:

﻿.. ==================================================
.. FOR YOUR INFORMATION
.. --------------------------------------------------
.. -*- coding: utf-8 -*- with BOM.

.. include:: ../../Includes.txt
.. include:: Images.txt


.. _kickstart_sphinx_project:

Creating and building a Sphinx documentation project
----------------------------------------------------

.. note::

	This section describes the creation and build of a Sphinx documentation project using the Backend
	module "Sphinx Console". Since version 1.1.0, extension authors may kickstart a Sphinx-based documentation
	right from the welcome screen of Backend module :ref:`sphinx-documentation-viewer`. It even features
	a link to convert an existing OpenOffice-based manual to Sphinx.

Use the module File > Sphinx Console which presents a tree of directories, choose an empty directory and use the wizard that is automatically shown to create a new Sphinx documentation project:

|

|project_wizard|

A blank Sphinx project will be created. You may then edit the configuration file ``conf.py`` to fit your needs.

To build a Sphinx project, choose a director containing a documentation project and click on one the build buttons:

|

|project_properties|

The console will show you the output of the command.


HTML
^^^^

This Sphinx builder generates a standalone HTML website of your documentation into directory ``_build/html``.


JSON
^^^^

This Sphinx builder generates a derivate from HTML into directory ``_build/json``. You should use this builder in order to properly integrate your documentation within your TYPO3 website. Extension `reST Documentation Viewer (restdoc) <http://typo3.org/extensions/repository/view/restdoc>`_ should be used with JSON output.


LaTeX
^^^^^

.. index::
	single: LaTeX

This Sphinx builder generates a LaTeX project of your documentation into directory ``_build/latex``. You need a LaTeX environment to compile LaTeX projects and generate nice-looking PDF. Please consult chapter :ref:`rendering_pdf` for further information.


PDF
^^^

.. index::
	single: PDF

If commands ``make`` and ``pdflatex`` are found on your server (or if you configured ``rst2pdf``), then an additional build button is shown, allowing you to build the PDF version of your documentation automatically:

|build_button_pdf|


Check Links
^^^^^^^^^^^

This Sphinx builder checks all links within your documentation and generates a report ``output.txt`` into directory ``_build/linkcheck/``.

Commit message:

[FEATURE] Wizard to register custom projects
Change-Id: I9c90a0ce8a07c60c6651337a402e5ce81ddd1d90
Resolves: #50811
Reviewed-on: https://review.typo3.org/23009
Reviewed-by: Xavier Perseguers
Tested-by: Xavier Perseguers

Documentation/UserManual/CreatingBuildingSphinxDocumentationProject/Index.rst, after:

﻿.. ==================================================
.. FOR YOUR INFORMATION
.. --------------------------------------------------
.. -*- coding: utf-8 -*- with BOM.

.. include:: ../../Includes.txt
.. include:: Images.txt


.. _kickstart_sphinx_project:

Creating and building a Sphinx documentation project
----------------------------------------------------

.. note::

	This section describes the creation and build of a Sphinx documentation project using the Backend
	module "Sphinx Console". Since version 1.1.0, extension authors may kickstart a Sphinx-based documentation
	right from the welcome screen of Backend module :ref:`sphinx-documentation-viewer`. It even features
	a link to convert an existing OpenOffice-based manual to Sphinx.

Use the module File > Sphinx Console which presents a tree of directories, choose an empty directory and use the wizard that is automatically shown to create a new Sphinx documentation project:

|

|project_wizard|

A blank Sphinx project will be created. You may then edit the configuration file ``conf.py`` to fit your needs.

To build a Sphinx project, choose a director containing a documentation project and click on one the build buttons:

|

|project_properties|

The console will show you the output of the command.

.. tip::
	You may register your custom project with the :ref:`sphinx-documentation-viewer`. To do so, please follow the
	:ref:`instructions <documentation-viewer-custom-project>`.


HTML
^^^^

This Sphinx builder generates a standalone HTML website of your documentation into directory ``_build/html``.


JSON
^^^^

This Sphinx builder generates a derivate from HTML into directory ``_build/json``. You should use this builder in order to properly integrate your documentation within your TYPO3 website. Extension `reST Documentation Viewer (restdoc) <http://typo3.org/extensions/repository/view/restdoc>`_ should be used with JSON output.


LaTeX
^^^^^

.. index::
	single: LaTeX

This Sphinx builder generates a LaTeX project of your documentation into directory ``_build/latex``. You need a LaTeX environment to compile LaTeX projects and generate nice-looking PDF. Please consult chapter :ref:`rendering_pdf` for further information.


PDF
^^^

.. index::
	single: PDF

If commands ``make`` and ``pdflatex`` are found on your server (or if you configured ``rst2pdf``), then an additional build button is shown, allowing you to build the PDF version of your documentation automatically:

|build_button_pdf|


Check Links
^^^^^^^^^^^

This Sphinx builder checks all links within your documentation and generates a report ``output.txt`` into directory ``_build/linkcheck/``.
