Documentation/UserManual/SphinxDocumentationViewer/Index.rst, before:

.. ==================================================
.. FOR YOUR INFORMATION
.. --------------------------------------------------
.. -*- coding: utf-8 -*- with BOM.

.. include:: ../../Includes.txt
.. include:: Images.txt


.. _sphinx-documentation-viewer:

Sphinx documentation viewer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This extension provides another Backend module under section "Help":

|section_help|

A drop-down menu on top lists all loaded extensions that are featuring a Sphinx-based documentation and lets you quickly show it **locally**:

|viewer_choose_extension|

.. tip::
	The Sphinx documentation viewer automatically reloads the last manual you selected and if you choose the interactive layout, it will even bring you to the chapter you were reading.

.. _layouts:

Layouts
"""""""

Extensions' manuals may be rendered with different "layouts":

- **Static:** This renders and shows the HTML version;

- **Interactive:** This renders and shows the JSON version and as such requires extension `reST Documentation Viewer (restdoc)`_. In addition, this layout features an integrated :ref:`ReStructuredText editor <sphinx-documentation-editor>` to let you quickly edit and recompile a given chapter;

- **PDF:** This renders and shows the PDF version and as such requires ``pdflatex``:

|render_pdf|

Internals
"""""""""

As Sphinx-based extensions' manuals are meant to be rendered on http://docs.typo3.org using the TYPO3 corporate design, they do not provide the general configuration files needed to be rendered locally.

When selecting an extension's manual to be shown from the drop-down menu the following process happens:

- If a cached version of the main document is found, the viewer loads it right away and does not compile the documentation.

Otherwise:

#. An empty Sphinx project is instantiated within ``typo3temp/tx_sphinx/<extension-key>`` and all files from ``EXT:<extension-key>/Documentation`` are copied in this directory

#. The Sphinx project is built as HTML, JSON or PDF, according to selected layout

#. HTML, JSON or PDF output is copied to ``typo3conf/documentation/<extension-key>/<language>/<format>/`` (currently ``language`` is always "default" for English)

#. The viewer loads the main document (e.g., ``Index.html`` with HTML output)

.. tip::
	A checkbox on the right lets you force the extension's manual to be recompiled (thus recreating the cached version):

	|checkbox|

.. note::
	The Sphinx Documentation Viewer supports two types of extension's manual:

	#. Standard documentation layout with the a whole Sphinx project stored within ``EXT:<extension-key>/Documentation/``, with the master document named ``Index.rst``
	#. Simple ReStructuredText README file as seen on Github or Bitbucket and saved as ``EXT:<extension-key>/README.rst``

According to the selected layout, the main document is:

- **Static:** Main document of HTML output is ``typo3conf/Documentation/<extension-key>/default/html/Index.html``

- **Interactive:** Main document of JSON output is ``typo3conf/Documentation/<extension-key>/default/json/Index.fjson``

- **PDF:** Main document of PDF output is ``typo3conf/Documentation/<extension-key>/default/pdf/<extension-key>.pdf``

Commit message:

[FEATURE] Add OpenOffice converter
Online service http://docs.typo3.org/getthedocs/service-convert.html should
be used to let developer convert their OpenOffice documentation easily.

Change-Id: Ie81e6a179ae8079c601d2872bffef26946cc9fa3
Resolves: #50733
Reviewed-on: https://review.typo3.org/22764
Reviewed-by: Xavier Perseguers
Tested-by: Xavier Perseguers

Documentation/UserManual/SphinxDocumentationViewer/Index.rst, after:

.. ==================================================
.. FOR YOUR INFORMATION
.. --------------------------------------------------
.. -*- coding: utf-8 -*- with BOM.

.. include:: ../../Includes.txt
.. include:: Images.txt


.. _sphinx-documentation-viewer:

Sphinx documentation viewer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This extension provides another Backend module under section "Help":

|section_help|

A drop-down menu on top lists all loaded extensions that are featuring a Sphinx-based documentation and lets you quickly show it **locally**:

|viewer_choose_extension|

.. tip::
	The Sphinx documentation viewer automatically reloads the last manual you selected and if you choose the interactive layout, it will even bring you to the chapter you were reading.


Welcome screen
""""""""""""""

If no documentation has been selected in the drop-down menu:

|kickstart|

a list of locally available extensions with an OpenOffice manual only is shown and lets you easily convert it to Sphinx
using an online tool on http://docs.typo3.org:

|convert-openoffice|

.. _layouts:

Layouts
"""""""

Extensions' manuals may be rendered with different "layouts":

- **Static:** This renders and shows the HTML version;

- **Interactive:** This renders and shows the JSON version and as such requires extension `reST Documentation Viewer (restdoc)`_. In addition, this layout features an integrated :ref:`ReStructuredText editor <sphinx-documentation-editor>` to let you quickly edit and recompile a given chapter;

- **PDF:** This renders and shows the PDF version and as such requires ``pdflatex``:

|render_pdf|


Internals
"""""""""

As Sphinx-based extensions' manuals are meant to be rendered on http://docs.typo3.org using the TYPO3 corporate design, they do not provide the general configuration files needed to be rendered locally.

When selecting an extension's manual to be shown from the drop-down menu the following process happens:

- If a cached version of the main document is found, the viewer loads it right away and does not compile the documentation.

Otherwise:

#. An empty Sphinx project is instantiated within ``typo3temp/tx_sphinx/<extension-key>`` and all files from ``EXT:<extension-key>/Documentation`` are copied in this directory

#. The Sphinx project is built as HTML, JSON or PDF, according to selected layout

#. HTML, JSON or PDF output is copied to ``typo3conf/documentation/<extension-key>/<language>/<format>/`` (currently ``language`` is always "default" for English)

#. The viewer loads the main document (e.g., ``Index.html`` with HTML output)

.. tip::
	A checkbox on the right lets you force the extension's manual to be recompiled (thus recreating the cached version):

	|checkbox|

.. note::
	The Sphinx Documentation Viewer supports two types of extension's manual:

	#. Standard documentation layout with the a whole Sphinx project stored within ``EXT:<extension-key>/Documentation/``, with the master document named ``Index.rst``
	#. Simple ReStructuredText README file as seen on Github or Bitbucket and saved as ``EXT:<extension-key>/README.rst``

According to the selected layout, the main document is:

- **Static:** Main document of HTML output is ``typo3conf/Documentation/<extension-key>/default/html/Index.html``

- **Interactive:** Main document of JSON output is ``typo3conf/Documentation/<extension-key>/default/json/Index.fjson``

- **PDF:** Main document of PDF output is ``typo3conf/Documentation/<extension-key>/default/pdf/<extension-key>.pdf``
